# CND Useful References

## Documentation

### 1. [Resources Types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html)

This section contains reference information for all AWS resource and property types that are supported by AWS CloudFormation.

Resource type identifiers always take the following form:

`[service-provider]::[service-name]::[data-type-name]`

- **"AWS::EC2::Instance"**
- **"AWS::S3::Bucket"**

### 2. [Resource attributes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-product-attribute-reference.html)

This section details the attributes that you can add to a resource to control additional behaviors and relationships.

- **CreationPolicy attribute**
- **DeletionPolicy attribute**
- **DependsOn attribute**
- **Metadata attribute**
- **UpdatePolicy attribute**
- **UpdateReplacePolicy attribute**

### 3. [Intrinsic function reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference.html)

built-in functions that help you manage your stacks. Use intrinsic functions in your templates to assign values to properties that are not available until runtime.

> you can use intrinsic functions in resource properties, outputs, metadata attributes, and update policy attributes. You can also use intrinsic functions to conditionally create stack resources.

- **Fn::Base64**
- **Fn::Cidr**
- **Condition functions -** **Fn::FindInMap**
- **Fn::ForEach**
- **Fn::GetAtt**
- **Fn::GetAZs**
- **Fn::ImportValue**
- **Fn::Join**
- **Fn::Length**
- **Fn::Select**
- **Fn::Split**
- **Fn::Sub**
- **Fn::ToJsonString**
- **Fn::Transform**
- **Ref**
- **Intrinsic function references in DeletionPolicy and UpdateReplacePolicy attributes**

### 4. [Pseudo parameters reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/pseudo-parameter-reference.html)

Pseudo parameters are parameters that are predefined by AWS CloudFormation. You don't declare them in your template. Use them the same way as you would a parameter, as the argument for the `Ref` function.

### 5. [CloudFormation helper scripts reference](https://)

CloudFormation provides the following Python helper scripts that you can use to install software and start services on an Amazon EC2 instance that you create as part of your stack:

- **cfn-init** – Use to retrieve and interpret resource metadata, install packages, create files, and start services.
- **cfn-signal** – Use to signal with a CreationPolicy or WaitCondition, so you can synchronize other resources in the stack when the prerequisite resource or application is ready.
- **cfn-hup** – Use to check for updates to metadata and execute custom hooks when changes are detected.
- **cfn-get-metadata** – Use to retrieve metadata for a resource or path to a specific key.

You call the scripts directly from your template. The scripts work in conjunction with resource metadata that's defined in the same template. The scripts run on the Amazon EC2 instance during the stack creation process.
