# Lambda Additional Configurations

Use additional configurations to set up code signing, function URL, tags, and Amazon VPC access for your function.

## Enable Code signingInfo

- Use code signing configurations to ensure that the code has been signed by an approved source and has not been altered since signing.

- With code signing, you can ensure that the code has been signed by an approved source and has not been altered since signing, and that the code signature has not expired or been revoked. A code signing configuration defines the allowed signing profiles and signature validation policy for the function.

## Enable encryption with an AWS KMS customer managed keyInfo

- By default, Lambda encrypts the .zip file archive using an AWS owned key.

- Use an AWS KMS customer managed key to encrypt your .zip deployment package if you want to have control over rotation of the KMS key or to meet the requirements of your organization for managing KMS keys. When you use a customer managed key, only users in your account with access to the KMS key can view or update the function's code.

## Enable function URLInfo

- Use function URLs to assign HTTP(S) endpoints to your Lambda function.

- When your function URL is configured, you can use it to invoke your function through a browser, curl, Postman, or any HTTP client.

- When you configure a function URL from the main function page, Lambda assigns the function URL to the \$LATEST unpublished version of your function. You cannot assign a function URL to any other function version, but you can assign a function URL to any function alias.

### Auth type

To secure your function URL, you can choose between IAM authorization (AWS_IAM) or no authorization (NONE). If you decide not to use IAM authorization, you should implement your own authorization logic in your function. Function URLs can support JWT/OIDC/OAuth2 authentication methods.

- **AWS_IAM:** Only authenticated IAM users and roles can make requests to your function URL.

- **NONE:** Lambda won't perform IAM authentication on requests to your function URL. The URL endpoint will be public unless you implement your own authorization logic in your function.

### Invoke mode

By default, your function URL's invoke method is set to BUFFER. When this mode is selected, Lambda returns invocation results only when the payload is complete.

To stream payload results as they become available, select RESPONSE_STREAM as your invoke method.

- **BUFFERED:** (default)The invocation results are available when the payload is complete. Response payload max size: 6 MB
- **RESPONSE_STREAM:** Stream the invocation results. Streaming responses incurs additional costs. Refer to the documentation for payload size limitations

- **Configure cross-origin resource sharing (CORS):** Use CORS to allow access to your function URL from any origin. You can also use CORS to control access for specific HTTP headers and methods in requests to your function URL. By default, all origins are allowed. You can edit this after creating the function.

## Enable VPCInfo

- Connect your function to a VPC to access private resources during invocation.
- All Lambda functions run securely inside a default system-managed virtual private cloud (VPC). However, you can also configure your Lambda function to access resources in a custom VPC. A custom VPC defines a private network of resources, such as databases, cache instances, or internal services.

- if your AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) permissions allow you only to create functions that connect to your VPC, you must configure the VPC details when you create the function. If your IAM permissions allow you to create functions that aren't connected to your VPC, you can add the VPC configuration after you create the function.
